hey guys what's up and welcome back to
the small linux youtube channel
so i recently bought a peloton bike
and i've had a lot of questions about
how i'm using it how i'm liking it
how it fits a petite or shorter body and
if it's
overall just worth it in general so i
thought today i would give you guys a
little review
as far as what i think of it and
also kind of demo it for you show it to
you guys and
also of course go over if it fits a
short woman's body if it's comfortable
if it's optimized for that
um and also we'll take a look at the app
and just dive into it
so without further ado let's jump into
the video
so we'll start by talking about why i
decided to buy one in the first place
especially you guys will know if you
have watched any of my videos
i am not a huge fan of cardio for petite
women
and when i say that i mean that cardio
has
a it has a place in any program it has a
place
but it should not be the center hero
of your fat loss program it should be
like the sidekick to your strength
training
and your proper nutrition and that's
what i'm always saying on this channel
so before you know you're like oh april
got a cardio machine
just know i do do cardio and you should
probably be doing cardio too
it's just a question of how much and
what is the intensity level because
as you guys have heard me say if you do
that as your primary form of
exercise with a fat loss goal it
probably is not the best route for fat
loss
alone and if you do too much it
backfires it causes
crazy appetite hunger hormones leads to
this really nasty cycle where you're
eating and then trying to exercise it
off and now you're overeating and you're
over exercising and you start to produce
cortisol in your body which is a stress
hormone and your adrenals get fatigued
and you just cannot lose fat when your
body is in this like very stressed state
so that's just like my little disclaimer
to tell you guys
cardio is not your your best friend but
she is
she's in like the the group of friends
you know she's like your best friend's
friend so she's there but she's not like
your best friend you want to be strength
training you want to be
lifting those weights improving your
metabolism rather than trying to burn as
many calories as possible
doing cardio that being said cardio
still has a place
it's used to help supplement your
calorie burn for the day it's there to
help you fat burn as well but
that's in addition to your strength
training and nutrition so the reason i
ended up getting a pelton is because
with all the events of this year
my step count started going down
significantly
i think in january a pr pre
shutdown i was probably at like 10 000
subs a day and it started getting down
to like
2 000 4 000 really really low so i
started
jogging to help increase my step count
in the
early part months of this year so like
march through
june and my body started to get really
worn down from
jogging i don't enjoy jogging i don't
like it
i don't have fun doing it it's very high
impact activity so it's a lot of
pounding on the joints
and i found that i was starting to get i
was going to bed with
crazy soreness um not sleeping well it
was just too much
too much impact for me as a former
athlete but it is a lot of impact for
anyone
so i then i switched to walking more
right i was like okay i'll go take
an hour long walk at lunch however i
don't really have time to do that with
everything i do and i'm sure you were
busy too so i needed to find something
that was
lower impact than running but more time
efficient
than walking and i love biking i love
cycling
back when i first moved to new york or
even before then i did a few soul cycle
classes
really enjoyed it i just love the fun
element to it the fact that you're kind
of like dancing on a bike
and so i thought okay maybe i should
download the peloton app and
try out one of their workouts on a
stationary bike that's in my home gym so
not a real pelton bike
and that's how i first got into peloton
so i started doing these cycling classes
on their app which is just 10 about i
think it's about 10
a month and did the classes on this like
janky little bike like the straps were
like broken on the feet like
do not recommend but it got the job done
and i did that for a few months i found
that it was something i could stick to
sustainable i was recovering better it
was a lower impact but still
i could get my cardio in in a shorter
amount of time than walking
and that's when i decided to make the
investment in purchasing the entire
bike especially because our gym did
close for a little bit and i didn't have
access to those bikes so i thought okay
there's going to be a point where i
won't have access to a machine again i'd
like to have one in
my home that being said i ordered one in
end of july
and it came in october so there was
quite a bit of a delay
that's the first thing i will say it
might take some time to get your bike so
just watch out for that
so i will start off by saying that it
has really become my step count
replacement i use it in a similar way
and i'll give you an example
i strength train in the mornings that's
what i do five days a week
and i do a little also a little bit of
cardio in the morning just by way of the
commute to where i work out now
and then at the very end of the day
after sitting all day you know doing
work at small lettuce hq
i get up come up to my apartment and i
hop on my peloton for
usually 10 to 20 minutes roughly and i
i cycle at a low intensity i barely
break a sweat sometimes i don't even
change it to workout clothes like i just
hop on
and i just get that my legs kind of
flushing out
i it's probably my heart rate's probably
around 120 beats per minute
which is about a fast a fast walk
um but i could hold a whole conversation
i could play video games i can read i
can watch tv i can
talk on the phone it's not strenuous
activity and i've kind of just used that
to replace
that step count it's a little harder
than walking but a lot easier than
running
and i do that the end of every day so
the only time i've really
been doing those structured peloton
classes is on days when i'm not strength
training or days when my movement was
really really really bad and i need to
have a more
more i feel like my body has it you know
needs that extra
work so i would say i only do a
structured high intensity class with one
of the peloton instructors like once a
week my favorite are the group of
classes and i'll do one
between 30 and 45 minutes so i'm not
using pelton
every day to do high intensity classes
or hit classes that's not the goal
i'm using it to just get my general
activity levels up
so that i'm not so sedentary and i think
that a lot of us are in that same
position this year
so those would be all the reasons why i
got it and a lot of the pros are wrapped
into that too
it's a really really great way to get
some extra
movement in but there's obviously
an elephant in the room which is the
price when i bought it i think it was it
was a little bit over two thousand
dollars i believe they've dropped it
down to around 1800
what i thought was really amazing and i
i have to say this because i just think
it says
something about the company is that they
win
even though i purchased it in july they
dropped the price down to
1800 they credited me 400
on my bank account even though i
purchased it when it was more expensive
and i just thought that was pretty
awesome like they could have kept that
easily but they actually just sent me an
email and said hey we reduced the price
of the bike and we want to give you that
credit back
even though you purchased it when it was
more expensive so i think that says a
lot about what they
are prioritizing as a company but that
being said
the price is obviously still so
so expensive very inaccessible to a lot
of people
um you know you can save up for it but
you really want to feel like it's going
to be worth it and you're going to use
it every day right
so price is the obvious elephant in the
room that being said
it is a very high quality bike i'm sure
that you can have a similar experience
doing what i did before i had a pelton
which is just finding any stationary
bike
and using their app and doing a class
the only thing that you miss from that
is you don't have you're not locked into
their
leaderboard or the metrics in terms of
like how much
output you're putting into it so it can
be harder to gauge intensity especially
if you're new to exercising or working
out or you
you're not just you know new if you're
new to biking it can be hard to figure
out
where what intensity level you should be
at because then you don't have the
instructor telling you oh you should be
at this and then
the output for you to see if you're at
that because the bike's in that the bike
has to be the peloton
bike to kind of like make sense with
what the instructions are being given
for the instructors so that's one thing
it is not as good but
like i said you can diy the situation if
you want to save money
i've had i've seen people comment on my
instagram saying they purchased a 300
amazon bike and then they use the
peloton app so that is a workaround
but that being said there are some
really great pros to having the bike
it's very ergonomic it is um
it's it's really locked into the metrics
and the leaderboard and the whole
experience which is nice
and what's great is you don't just have
to do the classes so
when i do just like the casual writing
every day i just
use this i do a scenic ride or i'll do
the just ride setting which is literally
just
i can just see my output my resistance
and just kind of
ride and watch tv or do whatever i want
okay as far as
it fitting a petite frame i think this
is so important
it does fit me very well i will tell you
i
in terms of the seat adjustment i put it
on level 12 so that
that means that there's still 12 marks
of of
space that you can put the seat down
lower so if you're shorter than me i'm
5-1
it's gonna be fine most likely it i
don't they probably have the
specifications on the website but i'm
guessing it could go
very low given that it still has a lot
of inches left
and i'm short already so it's i already
raised the seat up
to the notch 12 and in terms of the seat
how close it is to the handlebars i do
have it on the closest setting i go by
having the elbow measuring it from your
elbow from the
seat to the handlebars with the finger
tips of your fingers
and i need it up that close just for me
personally
so you probably if you're shorter than
me you're not gonna be able to move the
seat up any more than i do
and then in terms of the handlebars i do
put them all the way down so that the
seat is only slightly below the
handlebars which just engages your core
more
you can have it higher it's not wrong
i've heard instructors say that you can
ride with it a little bit higher you
just use more of your legs and
less of your core so overall i feel like
it would fit
women who are my height very well as
well as women who are shorter than me
i'm guessing it can go a lot lower it
seems to fit a pretty
wide range of heights and also on the
opposite side of things
gary and my fiance he's 6'4 and he can
ride it really comfortably too
it's just literally the seat is like at
the ceiling
another thing i wanted to bring up was
that the bike
and the app they kind of you kind of
have to have the apathy of the bike this
is kind of a bummer
the app is 39 something per month so
it's expensive
and the app is amazing i mean it has
literally so many on-demand workouts
so many different trainers so many
different things to choose from whether
it's the bike or another type of workout
like
they have floor workouts and cardio and
whatever
but i think the bike without the app
would be pretty limited i don't think
there's that much you can do with it
except for like free ride like you can't
use the monitor
as a tv i'm pretty sure you can't and
so that being said when you go to see if
you want to make an investment in it
keep in mind that it's the 1800 plus the
39 whatever
amount per month on top of that which is
definitely
not great overall though i will say that
if you look at this as an investment
in your health over the period of many
years
that's what put it in perspective for me
also as an athlete with a lot of wear
and tear on my body from
training all over all over the past you
know
20 years i know that if i
ran for the next five years i would be
injured i'd be chronically injured
chronically in pain i'd have a lot of
inflammation
and so it just makes sense to
look at the you know not just the
expense over time but look at how it's
saving you from potential injury over
time doctors visits whatever
if you're looking at edit as an
alternative
to running so yes it's expensive but it
kind of comes down to what you're
looking for
and if you really think you'll use it
for a while i do think you kind of
have to like biking to get into it
obviously because it's
all the classes are very bike i mean
it's a it's a cycling class it's kind of
like your soul cycle or your flywheel or
whatever so if you don't like that
you're probably not gonna like belton
all right you guys let me give you a
little tour of the bike
so this is where we keep it obviously
it's in the bedroom we live in
a one bedroom studio in brooklyn so it
would be hard to really put it in the
living room and i will give you guys a
quick
tour so here it is in all its glory it
is quite large it takes up
quite a bit of space i would say but
it's compact enough to obviously fit in
our bedroom and i'll show you some of
the close-ups now
okay what i've just showed you was
gary's settings for the equipment but
i've just moved the bike
so that it's on mine so that now you can
see
i'm at a level 12 so as you can see
there's still
maybe six inches left
to lower the bike if you need to but not
a lot and then as far as the
seats i do have it on the furthest
setting forward
and in terms of the handlebars are the
furthest down
that you can go so i would say
there is not too much room for
adjustment i'm 5 1
but i think that you could lower this
seat and
keep these where they are and it would
still fit but you might want to check
their site to see their specifications
on that
but yeah it's besides that it's great um
this is the screen hello
it is pretty large and in charge
[Music]
all right you guys i hope that you liked
this review i'm really really curious to
see how many girls in the short girl
gang
have a peloton so let me know in the
comments below if you've invested in one
and if so
how you're liking it so far and if you
have any questions about the bike
this is not a sponsored video i just
made it for fun uh and to help you guys
who have had questions about it just let
me know in the comments below any
questions you have i'll try my best to
answer them
and please give this video a like if you
found it useful and i will see you guys
next week
[Music]
bye
you